hi I'm chef Tom welcome to fortune
cooking today I'm going to show you a
really popular dish in the Asian family
it's called Mapo tofu you can make
vegetarian or you can have shrimp or
pork or any other Mapo tofu is find the
main ingredient is this black bean paste
all right they have a garlic ginger and
black bean and hot pepper and another
ingredient that I like to introduce is
samba a lot of people know is the
vegetarian hot chili with a bunch of
vegetable and pepper and you know lime
everything go together that's a really
good one I feel like very spicy today so
we have cilantro cooking wine soy sauce
and we're gonna garnish some ginger
couple of slice we want to have a fine
chop okay and then come across or you
can now grated ginger wine the ginger or
you can buy the ginger in the in the jar
all right okay ginger is done put on the
side and now the garlic smash it really
good and cut it really fine those are
the facing ingredient and this is a very
popular dish so really good with the
rice and some people like to put it in
the different version they can do some
add some vegetable
peppers those are good and mushroom and
I have half of the sweet onions and you
cut a really fine too
[Applause]
okay just like this and the next thing
is I have this uh green onion for the
garnishing I like to cut it you should
have like to cut with the diagonally
like this just angle this way and just
give them a really fine chop and I
usually save the white part of the green
onion which is the scallion this is for
the garnishing so I put on the side all
right and what happened is that I can
use that to saute with my onion with the
garlic with the ginger will give them a
really nice flavor okay all right now we
have to take here our tofu this is part
of the main ingredient too as well
so this tofu is kind of like a
medium-firm all right you can get soft
or really firm and we love tofu I mean
if you just taste a plain tofu is no
flavor to it but if you know how to cook
it and take care of it it will give you
a really great flavor all right so what
I'm gonna do is are usually cut in
between split it into half all right
just like this and then I in the middle
and then two more cut here so we have
full section now and here I go to the
middle too and the same thing all right
that's tofu we're ready to cook here wat
on medium one tablespoon of the high
smoke point cooking oil
and then I will put the onion ginger
garlic in the green onion first saute
until fragrant take about a minute so
after about a minute what they look like
smells so good hmm here's a black bean
paste and there's the sambar hot sauce
very easy to make go really get with the
rice so delicious hmm
no so good this is the one - spicy just
reduce the hot sauce
now you can have a little spicy to it
and that is a great dish with the shrimp
Oh pork here we go
so people another minute so after a
minute pour some wine
that's that alcohol would reduce a
little bit soy sauce and let them cook
for another minute you give me about a
minute you got all the hot sauce and the
black bean and all the onion and
everything garlic ginger let them cook
little bit get the flavor out and you
can it's a vegetable stock oh I just
used twin water okay and now stir a
little bit and put your lips on it it's
nice to have a wok with the lids because
it's hard to cook at home because the
temperature usually is not as hot as
powerful at a restaurant unless you have
a commercial or stove at home which is
really nice but I always get a wok with
a lid that will help to raise up your
temperature in the wok okay okay after
you bring up to the boil and the sauce
is nice and happy or cook together and
you just put the tofu in gently just
like this okay you don't want to disturb
the tofu too much all right just like
this and tofu will absorb the sauce and
you need to let them cook a little bit
so I'm gonna turn a little high higher
and then I put my lid back on and let
them must slowly cook once you bring up
to the boil again and just let them cook
medium high and just let the sauce cook
for like I will say five to ten minutes
and just let all the ingredients all the
spices get in through the tofu and you
don't need to stir the tofu just keep
control on the temperature and of course
make sure they're not over burn but just
cool like this okay and let them cook
until you can see the sauce start taking
a little bit okay it's about four
minutes okay Jenny you feel like this
you see the sauce they kind of like flip
over cover up the tofu because you're
not gonna you know stir fry the tofu
right now you're just gonna let them
slow cook
and now is the time to get to try your
sauce foods
nice flavor spicy powerful boy spicy
good some people want to add some
sweetness to it a little bit sugar or
just the way it is I'm gonna leave it
just like this if you want you can have
a touch of the half teaspoon of the
brown sugar now they'll be good so right
now at this point is that the sauce is
dry out pretty good so some people would
not touch anything just like this I'm
finish up and take a serve but I'd like
to add a visit out I have a potato
starch not much maybe any one teaspoon
potato starch because I added the
thicker that's how you do it you don't
flip the tofu too much um you just count
like it swore like this okay I have like
maybe just a little bit tiny potato
starch not even like 1/3 teaspoon with
some cold water okay and the end very
important in assessing the oil like this
okay it's done Mapo tofu is done smells
so good happy here's your vegetarian
Mapo tofu try it
believe me it's really delicious good
flavor and as I said you can add shrimp
or pork or chicken make a great dish and
go really good with the rice and I got
it with some green onion and cilantro
all right wonderful dish I'm chef Tom
thank you for watching fortune cookie I
see you next time